
		Linux/m68k Amiga Bootstrap version 5.5
		--------------------------------------

Maintained by Geert Uytterhoeven (Geert.Uytterhoeven@cs.kuleuven.ac.be)
Last revised: March 27, 1997


0. Introduction
---------------

Amiboot is used to boot Linux/m68k on Amiga from the CLI/Shell.

Before you try to boot Linux/m68k for the first time, please read the FAQ

    http://www.clark.net/pub/lawrencc/linux/faq/faq.html

and the Installation Guide

    http://www.informatik.uni-oldenburg.de/~amigo/inst.html

first. Although the Installation Guide is getting a bit outdated, it's still a
good starting point.

Amiboot 5.5 is meant for Linux/m68k 2.0.x, 2.1.x or higher (kernel bootinfo
interface versions 1.x and 2.x). Please use an older version for older kernels.


1. Running Amiboot
------------------

The Amiboot invocation syntax looks like

    amiboot [options] [kernel command line]

Basic options:

    --help           Display the usage information

    --kernel file    Use kernel image `file' (default is `vmlinux')

    --ramdisk file   Use ramdisk image `file'

Advanced options:

    --debug          Enable debug mode

    --baud speed     Set the serial port speed (default is 9600 bps)

    --memfile file   Use memory file `file'

    --keep-video     Don't reset the video mode

    --model id       Set the Amiga model to `id'

    --processor cfm  Set the processor type to `cfm'

The kernel command line contains the options you want to pass to the kernel and
to init, the process that's started first by Linux. Please read
linux/Documentation/m68k/kernel-options.txt for more information.

Normally you only use the --kernel option to specify the file that contains the
Linux/m68k kernel image, and --ramdisk if you want to boot from a ramdisk file,
i.e. a file containing a complete file system, instead of from a hard disk
partition.

Note that both the kernel image and the ramdisk image can be compressed with
gzip. Amiboot knows how to deal with gzipped kernel images, and the kernel
recognizes gzipped ramdisk images.

Example:

    amiboot -k vmlinux-2.1.13 root=/dev/hda3 video=font:PEARL8x8

Amiboot will boot the kernel image `vmlinux-2.1.13' and will pass
`root=/dev/hda3 video=font:PEARL8x8' to the kernel.


The other options are more advanced. Don't use them unless you really have to
and you know what you're doing.

The --baud option allows you to specify the serial port speed for initial boot
information and initial kernel messages. Note: this option does not work with
kernels with bootinfo interface versions prior to 2.0.

The --memfile option is used to specify the blocks of memory that will be used
by Linux.

The --keep-video option is necessary if you want to retain the current graphics
mode (on a graphics board) under Linux. Currently this is only useful if you
have a CyberVision 64 graphics board.

Finally, --model and --processor allow you to specify your Amiga model and
processor type if they are detected incorrectly, and --debug dumps some
information which simplifies debugging.


2. The memory file
------------------

If you have some non-AutoConfig memory you want to use under Linux, or if you
want to disable some parts of your memory (e.g. Zorro II RAM on '040 based
systems), you have to use a memory file and the --memfile option. This file
contains information about the memory chunks you want to use under Linux. The
format for the file is:

    chipramsize
    [0xfastchunkaddr fastchunksize]
    [0xfastchunkaddr fastchunksize]
    ...

For example, if you don't want Linux to use your 2nd meg of chipram, you would
create a file that contains only:

    1048576

If you had 1M of chip ram, 2M of 16 bit FAST ram at address 0x200000 and 16M of
32 bit FAST ram at address 0x80000000, and you didn't want Linux to use the
slow 16 bit FAST ram, you'd create a file that looks like:

    1048576
    0x80000000 16777216

The memory file can also be used to specify in which block of memory the kernel
will be put. Normally Amiboot will put the kernel in the first block of Fast
RAM it will find. If you use a memory file, it will put the kernel in the first
block of fast RAM you specify.


3. Amiga models
---------------

If Amiboot incorrectly detects the model of your Amiga, you can force it to
detect any model you want using the --model option. `id' must be one of the
numbers as defined in linux/include/asm-m68k/amigahw.h (AMI_*). Currently the
following models are known:

    Model	    ID
    -----	    --
    Amiga 500	     1
    Amiga 500+	     2
    Amiga 600	     3
    Amiga 1000	     4
    Amiga 1200	     5
    Amiga 2000	     6
    Amiga 2500	     7
    Amiga 3000	     8
    Amiga 3000T	     9
    Amiga 3000+	    10
    Amiga 4000	    11
    Amiga 4000T	    12
    CDTV	    13
    CD32	    14
    Draco	    15

Note that Amiboot can't distinguish among Amiga models that are very similar to
each other (e.g. A500/A1000/A2000/A2500 and A3000/A3000T). Of course this is
harmless and there's no real need to use --model in that case.

Please send me the output of amiboot used with the --debug option if your Amiga
model is detected incorrectly.


4. Processor types
------------------

If your processor is detected incorrectly, you can override this using the
`--processor cfm' option. `cfm' must be a three-digit number with

  - `c' the CPU (Central Processing Unit) type,
  - 'f' the FPU (Floating Point Unit) type,
  - 'm' the MMU (Memory Management Unit) type,

from the table below:

     value |  CPU  |  FPU  |  MMU
    -------+-------+-------+-------
       0   |   -   |   -   |   -
       1   | 68020 | 68881 | 68851
       2   | 68030 | 68882 | 68030
       3   | 68040 | 68040 | 68040
       4   | 68060 | 68060 | 68060

e.g. `444' if you have a 68060 and `303' if you have a 68LC040.

Note that normally you don't have to use this option. It's only needed for some
combinations of an old Kickstart ROM and a new processor (e.g. a 68060).


5. Abbreviations
----------------

All options also have a shorthand:

    --help 	    -h
    --kernel	    -k
    --ramdisk	    -r
    --debug	    -d
    --baud	    -b
    --memfile	    -m
    --keep-video    -v
    --model	    -t
    --processor	    -p


6. Miscellaneous
----------------

Some expansion boards keep on generating interrupts once they were initialized
under AmigaOS. This can cause an interrupt deadlock while booting Linux. The
following boards are recognized and disabled:

    o Helfrich Rainbow 3 Graphics Board
    o Helfrich Piccolo Graphics Board
    o Helfrich SD64 Graphics Board
    o Village Tronic Ariadne Ethernet Board
    o Hydra Systems Amiganet Ethernet Board

The following boards are known to cause problems but we don't have a disable
routine for them yet:

    o Commodore A2060 Arcnet Card
    o Ameristar A560 Arcnet Card

If you write a routine to disable an expansion board, please let me know.


7. Troubleshooting
------------------

  - Amiboot says

	This bootstrap is too old/new for this kernel

    This means that you're using a version of Amiboot that's not compatible
    with the kernel you want to boot.

    Solution: use the correct Amiboot, or use another kernel.

  - Amiboot says

	Warning: too many AutoConfig devices. Ignoring device at 0x????????

    or

	Warning: too many memory blocks. Ignoring block of ???K at 0x????????

    This means that you have more AutoConfig devices or memory chunks than
    Amiboot supports. Note that you can still boot Linux/m68k, but that the
    additional devices or memory blocks can't be used.

    Solution: increase the ZORRO_NUM_AUTO (for AutoConfig devices) or
    NUM_MEMINFO (for memory chunks) values in the kernel sources
    (linux/include/asm-m68k/zorro.h and linux/include/asm-m68k/setup.h) and
    recompile both Amiboot and the kernel.

  - If all you get is a grey screen, or if Linux/m68k suddenly locks up during
    booting, try the following things:

      o Boot with the Startup-Sequence disabled, run SetPatch and try again.

      o If that doesn't work, remove any expansion devices and retry.

      o Check the detected Amiga model and processor type.

      o Look at the characters that are dumped to the serial port during
	booting.


8. Amiga-Lilo
-------------

Once you have a stable Linux/m68k installation, you may want to try Amiga-Lilo.
Amiga-Lilo allows you to boot Linux/m68k without the overhead of booting
AmigaOS first, and it provides you with a boot menu.


9. Credits
----------

This readme was written by Geert Uytterhoeven. A lot of information was taken
from the ANNOUNCE-* files by Hamish Macdonald.
